Emotions are complex.
They shape how we interpret the world and influence
the actions we take.
When we talk about emotions, we’re referring to the way our brain
explains how we feel in a given situation.
These feelings can be mild or intense, pleasant or unpleasant—but
they always feel real to us.
Each of us experiences emotions differently.
In the same situation, you might feel frustrated, while someone else
feels indifferent.
Even within ourselves, reactions can vary.
Think about a time when something upset you deeply, yet on another
day, the same situation might not have bothered you at all.
Our emotions don’t just exist in our minds—they can trigger
physical responses.
A racing heart, tense muscles, or butterflies in your stomach.
These physical sensations, paired with emotions like fear or
excitement, influence how we behave.
Recognizing this connection is the first step to
building emotional intelligence.
So how can you build awareness of your emotions?
Try this: The next time you face a challenging situation at work,
schedule a moment to reflect—later that day, at the end of the week,
or whenever your emotions have settled.
ASK yourself:
-	How did I feel in that moment?
-	Why did I feel that way?
-	Was it the situation itself or something deeper, like an insecurity
or past experience?
-	Do I notice any patterns in my reactions?
Remember, emotional intelligence isn’t about changing who you
are—it’s about understanding yourself.
Over time, this awareness may shift how you respond in challenging
situations… or it may not.
Either way, the insight you gain will strengthen your
self-awareness—key to both success and personal well-being.
Emotions shape our experiences, but with awareness, we can shape
how we navigate them.
Take the time to reflect—it’s an investment in yourself.